Years ago, I broke into my own house.
I'd just driven home,
it was midnight in the dead of the winter
visiting my friend
thermometer in the front reads -40
is that Celsius.
the two scales meet at minus 40 —
it's very cold.
While I stood on the porch rummaging my pockets,
and hadn't got my keys
could see them the window
still on the table.
so I quickly ran the doors and windows
which were locked.
I wanted to call locksmith with my cellphone
but midnight, it could for a locksmith to show up
it was cold
Jeff's house was out of the question
since I had to fly to Europe early the next day,
needed to get my passport
You go to the doctor and get tests.
and you have high cholesterol
you need medication to treat it.
you get a pillbox.
You're confident
your physician has some confidence that this will work
the company that invented it, did a lot of studies
they studied it very carefully, they approved it
they have complete idea of how it works
they know the side effects.
it should be fine
you have a little more of conversation with your physician
and the physician is a little worried because you're a little blue
you aren't feeling normal
you haven't been able to enjoy thinks quite as much as you usually do
your physician says, "I think you have some depression.
I'm going to prescribe another pill.
So now you've two medications
This pill also- millions of people have taken it,
the company did studies- all good.
Years ago,
I totter towards a simple design exercise
that helps you to grapple with hard problems,
many of these design exercises can seem trivial at first
but under inspection
reveals unexpected truths
the way we collaborate and make sense of things
the exercise has three parts
beginning with something we all know how to do
which is make toast.
it starts with a clean sheet, a felt marker,
without words, begin to draw how to make toast
most people draw something like this
they draw a loaf of bread, slice it and put in toaster
the toast is there for some time
popping up, viola! After two minutes, toast and happiness
over the years, I've collected hundreds of drawings of toast
some of them are very good
they illustrate the toast-making process clearly
then there are some that are not so good
In my youth, I was a proud nonconformist
in the state I live in, Kansas
I didn't follow with the crowd.
Trying weird fashion or hair trends wasn't scary.
I'm very social and outspoken.
Pictures of my London semester 16 years ago
show that I obviously didn't care if was perceived as weird
I was in London 16 years ago.
There's something unique about myself, I just realized.
which changed everything.
My thoughts of me and my actuality are opposites.
I stayed in my room
My participation in clubs ad leadership activities stopped.
I want to blend in with the crowd.
It was because I was growing up.
not that I was suddenly looking for acceptance
I thought I was immune to needing acceptance.
since I was unconventional
I realize now
the instant I realized I was unique
this is a tipping point in human history,
we're poised between gaining the stars and losing our home planet.
we have greatly expanded
our knowledge of how Earth fits within the universe
NASA's Kepler mission has discovered
thousands of potential planets,
so Earth is one of billions of planets in our galaxy.
Kepler,  a space telescope
the subtle dimming of stars as planets pass in front of them
blocking the light from reaching us
planets' sizes revealed by Kepler
distance from their parent star
these planets are small and rocky,
terrestrial planets in our solar system,
light receive their parent sun
providing clues about planets we discovered
might habitable
we're discovering this treasure trove
of potentially liveable worlds,
the Earth is sagging under the weight of humanity.
