Previously I broke into my house
I'd driven home
it was midnight in the dead of Montreal winter,
from visiting my friend, Jeff, across town
the thermometer read minus 40 degrees
either Celsius or Fahrenheit,
the two scales meet -40
it was very cold.
I went through my pockets
and couldn't find my keys.
but I saw them through the window
on the table where I left them.
So I ran round trying all the doors and windows
which were locked tight.
I thought of calling locksmith with my cellphone
but it was late and he'd be some time
it was cold
I couldn’t go back to Jeff’s house for the night
cause I had an flight to Europe the next morning,
and needed my passport and suitcase.
You get some tests at the doctor
The doctor says that you have high cholesterol
and you would benefit from medication.
You need a pillbox.
You have confidence.
your doctor is confident this will work.
The maker of it did many studies, submitted it to the FDA.
They studied it carefully, sceptically, approved it.
They roughly know how it works.
they know  the side effects are
It will be OK.
You talk more with your doctor
and the doctor is worried about your sadness
haven't felt normal,
you don't enjoy life
Your physician says, "I think you have depression.
I'm going to have to give you another pill"
So now we're talking about two medications.
This med has also been taken by millions
and also has FDA approved studies.
Years ago
I stumbled across a simple design exercise.
that helps people with complex problems,
like many other design exercises, it initially seems trivial.
but under deep inspection,
it turns out that it reveals truths
about the way we interact and think about things.
it has three parts
and starts with something that we all do
which is how toast is made
beginning with a clean sheet of paper, a felt marker
and you draw a picture of how to make toast
and most people draw this
they draw a bread, which is sliced
the toast is then deposited for some time
it pops up, and after tow minutes it's done
Over time, I've collected hundreds of these drawings,
and some are very good,
because they show the toast-making process clearly.
and then, there are some not so good
I was a young, prideful nonconformist.
in the conservative state I live in, Kansas.
I didn't follow with the crowd
I wasn't scared to try weird clothing
I was outspoken and social
I have pictures and postcards of my semester abroad in London.
show me as uncaring about how I was perceived.
But that was when
I realized something about myself that was unique
and that changed everything
I'm not who I thought I was.
I stayed in instead of socializing
I stopped going to clubs and activities.
I no longer chose to stand out publicly.
I told myself it was because I was maturing
not that I was looking for acceptance
I had assumed I was immune to needing acceptance
I was a bit unconventional.
I now realize.
that the moment I realized something was different about me
point of human history
species poised between gaining & losing the planet
in the past few years, we've greatly expanded
our knowledge of how Earth fits within the our universe.
NASA's Kepler mission has discovered
thousands of potential planets around stars,
showing that Earth is one of billions of planets in our galaxy.
Kepler space telescope
that measures the subtle dimming of stars as planets pass of them,
blocking that light from reaching us.
Kepler's reveals planets' sizes
distance from star
these planets are small and rocky
like the terrestrial planets in the Solar System,
how much light they receive from their parent sun
provides clues
might be liveable or not
we're discovering this treasure trove
of potentially liveable worlds
planet is sagging under the weight of humanity
