Once I broke into my own house.
I'd driven home
in Montreal around winter midnight
after visiting my friend, Jeff,
the thermometer on the porch read minus 40 degrees —
don’t ask if that's Celsius or Fahrenheit
the scales meet at  minus 40 -
it was very cold.
I understood
I realized I didn't have my keys.
In fact, they were visible through the window,
on the dining room table where I'd left them.
So I ran around trying the other doors and windows,
they were locked tight.
I thought of calling a locksmith — at least I had my cellphone,
but it could take a while for a locksmith to show up,
it was cold
I couldn’t go back
because I was flying to Europe the next morning,
and my suitcase and passport were essential.
So you go to the doctor and get tests.
The doctor determines you have high cholesterol.
and medication would help treat it.
You get the meds.
You have confidence.
your doctor believes it will work.
The company that invented it did lots of studied, submitted to the FDA.
They studied it carefully, sceptically and approved it.
They know how it works
They roughly know the side effects.
It should be alright.
You talk more to your doctor
and the doctor is concerned because you've been blue,
haven't felt like yourself
haven't enjoyed things in life as usual.
Your doctor says I think you have depression.
I'm going to give you another pill."
Now we have two medications.
Millions of people have taken this pill, too.
The company did studies, FDA looked -- all good.
Some years ago.
I found an easy design exercise
that helps people understand and solve complex problems
and like other design exercises, it appears simple,
but under deep inspection
it reveals unexpected truths
about how we interact and understand things.
The task has 3 parts
and starts with something everyone can do
how to make toast.
It starts with paper and a marker
and without words, you draw how to make toast.
Most people draw this
They draw a loaf of bread, which is slicked, then put into a toaster.
The toast sits for a while.
It pops up. After two minutes, toast and happiness.
Over time I've collected hundreds of these drawings
and some are very good,
because they show the toast process quite clearly.
and some are not good.
I was a nonconformist when I was young.
in conservative Kansas, USA.
I didn't follow the crowd.
I wasn't afraid to try weird clothing or hairstyles
I was outspoken and outgoing.
I have photos and postcards from my London semester of 16 years ago.
show I didn't care if I was perceived as weird or different
But that same year in London,
I realized my own uniqueness,
and that changed all
I rejected my previous self perception.
I didn't want to socialize.
I stopped engaging in clubs
I don't want to me noticed in a crowd.
I told myself I was growing up and maturing
not a sudden need for acceptance.
I had always assumed I didn't need acceptance
I was a bit different
But I see now.
that the moment I realized I was different
We're at tipping point in human history,
poised between gaining the stars and losing the Earth.
We've expanded greatly in recent years
our knowledge of how Earth fits in the universe.
NASA's Kepler mission has discovered
thousands of potential planets around other stars,
showing that Earth is one of billions in our galaxy
Kepler is telescope
that measures the subtle dimming of stars as planets pass in front of them,
blocking light from reaching us.
Kepler's info shows planet's sizes
distance between their parent star.
Together, this helps us understand whether planets are small and rocky,
like the terrestrial planets in our Solar System,
how much light they receive from parent sun.
clues as to whether these planets that we discover
might be habitat or not.
We are discovering this treasure
of potentially habitat worlds,
people can already destroy the Earth.
