My house was broken into a few years ago.
I just drove home
at midnight in the dead of winter,
I'd visited my friend across town
the thermometer on the front porch read minus 40 degrees
don't bother asking if that's Celsius or Fahrenheit
that's where the scales meet,
it was very cold.
I stood on the front porch fumbling in my pockets
I haven’t my keys.
I see through window.
lying on the table where I left them
So I quickly ran around and tried all the doors and windows,
they were locked tight
I thought about calling a locksmith as I had my cellphone,
but it could be ages before he came
in the cold.
I couldn't to my friend for the night
because I had an early flight to Europe the next morning,
and my passport and suitcase were essential.
Go to the doctor and get tested.
The doctor determines you have high cholesterol
You would benefit treating it with medication.
You get a pillbox.
You are confident,
Your physician is confident this will work.
The company submitted it to the FDA after a lot of studies.
They approved after studying it careful.
They have an idea of how it will work.
They know what some of the side effects are.
It should be OK.
You need to have more conversation with your physician.
The physician is worried that you have been blue.
Haven't felt like yourself.
You haven't been able to enjoy things in life as much as you usually do.
The doctor thinks you have depression.
I'm going to give you another med
Now its two medications.
Millions of people have take it.
The company did studies and the FDA says all good.
Some years ago,
I came upon a simple design task
that helps people solve complex problems
and initially seems trivial,
but ultimately
it reveals unexpected truths
about how we collaborate and understand things.
It has three parts
and begins with something we know how to do:
how to make toast.
It begins with a sheet of paper, a felt marker,
and without words, start drawing how to make toast.
Most people draw something like this
A sliced bread loaf, which is put into a toaster
The toast is in for some time.
It pops up in two minutes
Now, I've collected many drawings of these toasts
and some are very good
because they explain the process quite clearly
Others are not so good.
I used to pride myself as a nonconformist
I lived in Kansas.
I didn't follow the crowd.
I liked to try weird clothing trends and hairstyles.
I was extremely social.
Even these pictures of my London semester abroad 16 years ago
I was careless to those that thought of me as weird or different.
But that same year I was in London
I realised something about me that actually was unique,
That changed everything.
I became the opposite of who I was
I chose solitude rather than socializing.
I dropped my clubs and leadership activities.
I didn’t want to stand out any more
I thought it was due to maturation,
I wasn't looking for acceptance.
I felt that I never needed acceptance.
Because I was unconventional.
But I realize now
In that moment of realization, I was different than others.
We're at an historical tipping point
poised between gaining the stars and losing our home planet.
We expanded the past few years
our knowledge of how Earth fits in the context of our universe.
NASA's Kepler mission has discover
thousands of potential planets around other stars,
indicating that Earth is just one of billions of planets in our galaxy.
Kepler is space telescope
that measures the dimming of stars as planets pass them,
blocking just light from reaching us
Kepler's data reveals planets' sizes
as well their distance from their parent star.
Together, show us if these planets are small and rocky,
like the terrestrial planets in our Solar System,
and how much sunshine gives them light.
This provides clues as to whether these new planets
might be habitable.
Unfortunately, while we're discovering this treasury
of potentially habitable worlds,
our planet sags under the weight of humanity.
