Preparation of the G20 Summit on 2 April - with participation of Gordon Brown, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown.
Welcome, 1st Minister, to the European Parliament.
The Prime Minister will make a statement to the European Parliament on next week's G20 Summit.
Thursday 2 April 2009 summit meeting in London will address the current international economic and ficial crisis.
It offers leaders of the industrialized and the emerging economies to work together for economic stability and recovery.
The London Summit needs to agree on the macroeconomic policies and regulatory structures for the current crisis and installed a framework for the future.
Gordon Brown has been offering active international leadership
The speed that has helped to develop the G20 as a new tool for international economic goverce is encouraging and impressive.
The Prime Minister has also made a strong and positive impact
I believe that Britain should be a central player in the European Union.
Prime Minister, we welcome your determination in this role.
I have great pleasure Gordon Brown
Prime Minister for this special honour of an invitation to speak to you
Thanks to the European parliamentarians and members of the European Commission, led by President Barroso: thanks to the work of all and to the generations we work on, today we enjoy a Europe of peace and unity, which will be among the best achievements in history Human and that today is a beacon of hope for the whole world.
If anyone has doubt about the will and courage of representatives with a mission can build a future out of despair, let them reflect how, 60 years ago, Europeans talked of forever entrenched and relationships that could never be repaired.
They talked of a bitter Cold War.
They didn't believe it possible that Europe could ever be completely peaceful, far less that it could unite and cooperate.
Think how after years of cooperation and unity, no one but those at the political extremes would question that we are stronger, together, and safer than ever.
On November 9 of this year, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of something that surely for each one of us in this House, one of the most defining events of our lives: the fall
Inaugural address by the President of European Parliament.
Presidents of the European Parliament, Ministers, Presidents and representatives of European institutions, ladies and gentlemen, and dear friends.
I am here as the thirteenth President of the European Parliament.
I am happy to see former Presidents here today: Mr Emilio Colombo,  Mr Enrique Barón Crespo, Mr Egon Klepsch, Mr Klaus Hänsch, Mr José María Gil-Robles, Mrs Nicole Fontaine, Mr Pat Cox and Mr Hans-Gert Pöttering.
Your presence is a privilege.
My election is symbolic of the dream of a united continent held by the citizens in our part of Europe, a dream that has been fulfilled.
My colleagues from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus and Malta have concerns needs and expectations of the Union.
I know, because in my country it is the same.
Now we share a  responsibility for the future of our continent.
No more old and new Europe.
This is our Europe!
We want it to be modern and strong.
We want citizens to see it as such.
Which means energy and hard work.
Generations of Europeans dreamed of this goal worthy of the effort needed to achieve it.
I am ready for work and effort,  because those dreams were also mine.
As we begin this new parliamentary term, Europe and its representatives face many challenges.
We must meet them.
Striving for a better Europe the Parliament plays a special role that is not only institutional but also social and deeply symbolic role.
It is the essence of the European democratic system.
The next item debates six motions for resolutions on Guinea.
Mr president, I believe the level of interest of this matter is greater than the population in this chamber, which I regret for my group and others
Mr. President, Guinea-Conakry needs support of the international community.
Following President Conte's death, a military junta seized power.
Despite international criticism it received domestic support as it promised a fast change to a free elected civil regime.
Captain Dadis Camera, junta's leader, swore not to interfere with presidential election, but after a mismanagement, he acquired taste for power and stood in the way of elections.
His electoral campaign relies on the country's organisational, media and economic resources.
In violation of the commitments made by the junta, the opposition organised a demonstration, which was repressed by the presidential guard.
It left 150 dead and more than 1000 injured, and many women were raped and disembowelled.
The reaction of the European Parliament and hopefully, the European Union, will be clear.
We call for suspension of the EU fisheries agreement
We request the African Union to impose sanctions and to organize a dialogue within a reconciliation committee.
We call for the outlaw of Junta and installation of transitional government for presidential and legislative elections.
I hope tat these reactions will set a precedent in other cases of flagrant breaches of human rights, the European Union will act just as promptly.
When you look into the situation of Guinea and learn about the atrocities in recent months, the first question is why it has had so little media coverage.
There has been few stories, as though hundreds haven't been killed, acts of torture and rape aimed at annihilating human dignity
Various international institutions have condemned the military junta, but I believe that more should have been done to raise awareness among ordinary European citizens.
The European Parliament has an appropriate reaction and the resolution we will vote on today appropriately addresses it.
It is of utmost importance not only to criticise and condemn the current regime but to eliminate any possibility of European funds sent to help the people being misappropriated.
28 September is important for the Guinean people because then their independence referendum took place.
Annual Report (2007) on the main CFSP aspects and choices - European Security Strategy and ESDP - NATO's role in the security architecture of the EU
The next agenda item:
the report by Saryusz-Wolski, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the annual report on the main aspects and basic choices of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) in 2007, presented to the European Parliament in application of point G, paragraph 43 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006,
on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs
the report by Vatanen, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you are not interested in following our debates, could you please leave the Chamber in silence.
Thanks, Mr President.
The Union's foreign policy is noteworthy.
Mr President, we have a special debate today on three major reports.(foreign policy, security and defence, and EU-NATO relations)
The annual report on common foreign and security policy (CFSP) has become an important vehicle for Parliament to express its strategic view on EU foreign policy.
This year's report focuses on policy making and shaping.
We focused on establishing a true dialogue with the Council on the main objectives of the EU's common foreign and security policy.
We recognized that for the first time the Council's report systematically refers to the resolutions adopted by the European Parliament.
We are grateful in this achievement.
With regret, the Council is not engaged in full disclosure with Parliament's views nor regards resolutions of documents as joint actions nor positions.
We expect the Council's annual report will allow for a dialogue with Parliament to develop a more strategic approach to common foreign and security policy.
We reiterated the pertinent principles in our report which should underscore our foreign policy.
We believe the CFSP must be underpinned and guided by EU and Member States values, notably democracy, the rule of law, respect for the dignity of the human person, human rights, fundamental freedoms, and the promotion of peace and effective multilateralism.
We believe the European Union can make an impact, but only if it speaks with one voice and if it is equipped with appropriate instruments like those stemming from the Lisbon Treaty and a more generous budget.
We only undertake effective action when it is legitimised by both the European and national parliaments acting at their respective levels and in accordance with their mandates.
Japan's situation, including nuclear power plant alerts (debate)
The Council and Commission Statements is next.
I want to give condolences to those in Japan who have been touched one way or another by this tragedy
I also pay tribute to those affected by the earthquake and tsunami and the nuclear incident.
The European Union stands alongside the Japanese people.
Japan has our complete assistance.
On that fateful day, the European Council sought the mobilisation of appropriate assistance
The European Civil Protection Mechanism was activated in order to help coordinate assistance.
The EU was quick to respond to Japan for assistance.
The European Union is ready to continue to offer humanitarian, technical and special assistance when Japanese authorities consider appropriate.
I want to thank the commissioner and high rep for a coordinated response to the disaster
The EU civil protection team deployed in Japan has our full support
Individual Member States have been prepared to make offers of assistance.
The Council will need to follow up on the macroeconomic impact of the Japanese crisis.
Ministerial Preliminary debate on the matter was held at Ecofin breakfast on March 15
Clearly, Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant raises concern for us
The Hungarian Presidency acted without delay, taking into account the gravity and possible effects in Europe, especially regarding the nuclear risk.
We convened the Working Party on Atomic Questions and an Extraordinary Energy Council in order to assess the situation in Japan.
The first message from the Council was one of solidarity, compassion and readiness to provide humanitarian and technical assistance.
It is also one of respect for the tenacity and resilience of the Japanese people who are still struggling in Fukushima.
