Preparation of the G20 with Gordon Brown
Welcome Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown.
Welcome, Prime Minister
The Prime Minister will make a statement to the European Parliament on the preparations for the G20 Summit.
comes at a critical movement international economic and ficial crisis.
It provides an opportunity for leaders of both the industrialized and emerging world to work together on a common agenda for immediate economic stability and long-term recovery.
The London Summit needs to agree on the macroeconomic policies and regulatory structures that can get us through the current crisis and establish a better future framework.
Gordon Brown has been offering active international leadership in one of the most difficult times in recent history.
goverce is both encouraging and impressive
The Prime Minister showed how the United Kingdom can work with its partners to find solutions to the challenges we have in common.
It is vital that Great Britain play a committed role as a central actor in the EU:
Prime Minister, we welcome your determination to play the role.
I'm honoured to give the floor to the British Prime Minister.
Prime Minister thank you for this special honour to speak to you.
finest achievements of human history
If anyone, in any country or continent, doubts how the human will and the courage of representatives with a mission can build a new future from decades of despair, reflect on how, 60 years ago, Europeans spoke of enmity Which were always ingrained and relationships that could never be repaired.
They talked, Cold War
far less that it could unite and cooperate.
none but those on the political extremes would question that we are stronger together
Something that surely for each of us in this Chamber must count as one of the most defining events of our lives - the fall of the Berlin Wall.
President of the European Parliament's inaugural address
Presidents, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends,
I am the thirteenth President of the European Parliament.
I am pleased to see former Presidents among us.
Your presence is a privilege.
My election is symbolic of the now fulfilled dream of a united continent held by European citizens.
My dear colleagues, I know and understand the concerns, needs and expectations of those who recently joined the Union.
I know, because in my country they're the same.
We share a responsibility for the future of our continent.
The old and new Europe are no more.
This is our Europe!
it should be modern  and strong.
We want our citizens to see it as such.
calling for energy and hard work.
It's a goal that generations of Europeans have dreamed of and one worthy of the effort needed to achieve it.
I am ready to make the effort
As we begin this new parliamentary term, we face many challenges.
We must meet those challenges.
We must remember that the European Parliament plays a special role that is institutional and social, a deeply symbolic role.
The European Parliament makes up the European democratic system.
The next item is the debate on motions for Guinea's resolution
Mr. President, I believe that the the interest in this matter outweigh the crowd that have came into this Chamber, which I regret for my group and others.
They need international support, Mr President.
Since the death of President Conté, a military junta seized power.
It promised to transform to a civil regime hence the domestic support although criticised by international community
Junta Captain Dadis Camara committed not to stand in the presidential elections until disastrous management of the country - no budget, no public tender bids, no basic services for the people - he got a taste for power and clung to it, making him stand in the elections.
His electoral campaign relies on the country's resources.
This violation of former junta commitments made the opposition organise a demonstration which was brutally repressed by the presidential guard.
It left 150 dead, more than 1000 injured, and many women raped and disembowelled.
The reaction of the European Parliament, and hopefully, the European Union, will be clear
We request  suspension of the European Union fisheries agreement.
We want the African Union to impose sanctions on the military junta, and organise a dialogue within a reconciliation committee.
We're calling for the installation of a transitional government in preparation for the presidential and legislative elections.
I hope that these reactions will set a precedent,  so that in cases of breaches of human rights, the European Union will act just as promptly.
author. - Mr. President, when looking into the situation of Guinea and learning about the atrocities in recent months, the first legitimate question is why it has had so little media coverage.
There have only been a few lines, as though there had not been hundreds of people killed and terrible acts of torture and rape aimed at annihilating human dignity.
Various international institutions have condemned the military junta, but much more should have been done to raise awareness among ordinary citizens, including European citizens.
This is why I am pleased that the European Parliament has an appropriate reaction, and the resolution we will vote on today will address it.
Of utmost importance is not only to criticise and condemn the current regime but eliminate any possibility of European funds intended to help the people of Guinea being misappropriated.
28 September is important for the people of Guinea it is the day when the referendum on independence took place.
annual report
joint debate on
the report by jacek saryusz-wolski
the report by von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the European Security Strategy and the European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP), and
the report of the roll of NATO in the security of the EU
Silently leave the Chamber if you have no interest in following the debates.
thank you
indeed
we have a debate on 3 reports on foreign policy security and defence and EU-nato relations
common security foreign and security policy(CFSP)  has become an important vehicle
we focus on policy making and shaping
a true dialogue with the council on the main objectives of the EU's common foreign and security policy
the council's report systematically refers to the resolutions adopted by the European
this is a real achievement
council does not engage in full dialogue or refer to joint actions or common positions
a more strategic approach to the common foreign and security policy
we have reiterated the most important principles
promotion of peace and effective multilateralism
but only if it speaks with one voice and if it is equipped with appropriate instrument
we can have effective action only if both EU and  national parliaments cooperate
Situation in Japan about nuclear power plants.
The Council and Commission statements on the situation in Japan, including nuclear power plant alerts, is next.
Madam President, I want to begin by conveying our condolences to the people of Japan who have lost loved ones and been touched by the tragic events 10 days ago.
I pay tribute to the courage and fortitude of those struggling with the consequences of the earthquake and tsunami, as well as those dealing with the nuclear incident.
The European Union stands in solidarity with the Japanese at this challenging time
We have provided Japan with assistance.
On the day the European Council asked the High Representative and the Commission to mobilise appropriate assistance.
The European Civil Protection Mechanism was activated to coordinate assistance offered by Member States.
The EU was responding to assistance requests from Japan very quickly.
The European Union stands ready to continue to answer calls for any help needed.
I would like to thank Commissioner Georgieva and the High Representative for a swift, comprehensive and very coordinated response.
The EU team deployed has our full support.
Individual Member states are prepared to offer generous assistance
The Council will need to follow up on the macroeconomic impact of the Japanese crisis.
Ministers had a preliminary debate on this at the Ecofin breakfast on 15 March.
The main concern is the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
The Hungarian Presidency acting swiftly to the disaster.
We promptly convener the working party on Atomic questions and assessment of situation in Japan as well as repercussions on the EU
The first message to come from the Council was one of solidarity, compassion and readiness to provide humanitarian as well as technical assistance.
This message also is respect for the resilience of the Japanese, especially those who still struggle to cope with Fukushima's situation.
