Preparation of the G20 Summit on 2 April - with Gordon Brown's, Prime Minister of the UK, Member of the European Council, participation
Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to welcome the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown, this afternoon.
Welcome to the European Parliament.
The Prime Minister preparations for next week's G20
This summit meeting, taking place in London on 2 April 2009, comes at a critical movement in the handling of the current international economic and ficial crisis.
It offers a vital opportunity for the leaders to work together on a common agenda for immediate economic stability and longer-term recovery.
The London Summit needs to agree on the macroeconomic
Gordon Brown has been offering active international leadership
His speedy help in developing the G20 as a new tool of international economic goverce is encouraging and impressive.
The Prime Minister also made a strong impact in showing how the UK can work well with its partners in the EU, as together we find solutions to our common challenges.
I always that it is vital that Britain plays a committed role as a central player in the EU.
Prime Minister determination to play such a role
I give the floor to British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown.
Let me thank you.
Let me thank you for the work all of you do and the generations whose work we build on, that we enjoy a Europe of peace and unity. a true rank of achievements of history and a beacon of hope for the world.
If anyone doubts how the human will and the courage of representatives with a mission can build a new future out of past decades of despair, let them reflect upon how, 60 years ago, Europeans talked of enmities that were forever entrenched and relationships that could never be repaired.
They talked about the Cold War.
They did not believe that Europe could be at peace or unite and cooperate.
Then let them think of how today none but those on the political extremes would question that we are stronger and safer together than we ever were apart.
On 9 November this year, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.
European Parliament inaugural address.
European Parliament, ministers, and European institution representatives, ladies, gentlemen, and above all, dear friends.
As the directly-elected European Parliament thirteenth President I stand before you.
A number of former Presidents are here:  Mr Emilio Colombo, Mr Enrique Barón Crespo, Mr Egon Klepsch, Mr Klaus Hänsch, Mr José María Gil-Robles, Mrs Nicole Fontaine, Mr Pat Cox and Mr Hans-Gert Pöttering.
A great privilege your presence is.
My election  is a symbol of the dream of a united continent held by the citizens in our part of Europe, a dream that has now been fulfilled.
I understand the concerns with those who recently joined the union
I know because they are the same as us
However, now we bear a shared responsibility for continent's future.
No more are old and new Europe.
It's our Europe!
It can be modern and strong.
And we want our citizens to see that.
It calls for energy and hard work.
European generations have dreamed of a goal and one worthy of the effort needed to achieve it.
I am ready for that work because those dreams were also my dreams.
As we begin this new parliamentary term  we face many challenges.
Need to meet challenges.
In striving for a better Europe, the European parliament plays a special role that is both institutional and deeply symbolic.
European Parliament is  in essence the European democratic system.
The next debate on six motions for resolution on Guinea.
Mr President, I believe the level of interest in it far outweighs the many that have come here this afternoon, which I regret for my group and others.
Mr President Connor needs support of international community
After the death of President Conté, power was seized
Criticized by the international community, it received domestic support because it promised a rapid transition to a civil regime with free elections.
Captain Dadis Camara, leader of the junta, firmly committed not to stand in the presidential elections,  but after a disastrous management of the country, he acquired a taste for power and is now standing in the elections.
His electoral campaign relies on all the country's organisational, media and economic resources.
In the face of this violation of commitments made by the junta, the opposition organised a demonstration which was repressed by the presidential guard.
150 were dead and more than 1000 injured, and many women were abused
The reaction of the European Parliament and European Union will be clear.
Suspension of the EU fisheries agreement is called for.
We call on the African Union to sanction the military Junta and organise a reconciliation dialogue
We call for the installation of a transitional government to prepare for the elections, the junta being outlawed by the international community.
I believe that these reactions will set a precedent and in cases of flagrant breaches of human rights,  the EU will act promptly
Mr president, when you look into matters arising in Guinea, the first question to ask is why it has had little media coverage
Only a little has been written not acknowledging the hundred killed, tortured and raped.
Various international institutions have condemned the military junta in power since the coup d’etat, but more should have been doe to raise awareness among ordinary citizens.
Hence, I am pleased that the European Parliament has an appropriate reaction and resolution to address it.
I consider, of the utmost importance is not only to criticise and condemn the current regime, but to eliminate any possibility of European funds being misappropriated.
28 September is an important date for  Guinea as it's the day when the referendum on independence took place.
Annual Report (2007) on the aspects and choices of the CFSP - European Security Strategy and ESDP - The role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU (debate)
Next item is the joint debate on:
The 2007 Committee on Foreign Affairs report by Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, was presented to European Parliament, in application of G, paragraph 43 of the IA of May 17, 2006.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs report, by Karl von Wogau on ESS and the ESDP
The Committee on Foreign Affairs report by Ari Vatanen, discussed NATO’s security infrastructure of the EU.
If you have no interest in following our debates, our rapporteur asks if you could please quietly leave the Chamber.
Thanks Mr President.
Indeed, I believe the Union's foreign policy is worthy of attention.
Mr President, we are debating on three major reports on foreign policy, on security and defence, and on EU-NATO relations.
The CFSP annual report is an integral tool for Parliament's strategy on EU foreign policy.
In this year's report, we focus on policy making and policy shaping.
The main focus is establishing actual dialogue with the Council and the objective of EU's common foreign and security policy.
We have recognised that it is in progress, in that the Council's report systematically refers to the resolutions adopted by the European Parliament.
We are grateful for this achievement.
However, we expressed our regret that the Council does not engage in a full dialogue with the Parliament's views, nor does it refer to those resolutions in operational documents as joint actions or common positions.
We expect that the Council's annual report will provide opportunities to establish a dialogue with Parliament aimed at developing more strategic approaches to the common foreign and security policy.
We reiterated the important principles in our report which should underscore our foreign policy.
The CFSP needs guidance via values of the EU and Member States, democracy, law, respect of human dignity , human rights, freedoms and promoting peace and multilateralism.
We believe the EU can make an impact, but only if it speaks as one and is equipped with appropriate instruments like from the Lisbon Treaty and a bigger budget.
We can undertake effective action only when it is legitimized by both parliaments acting at their respective levels and in accordance with their own mandates.
Japan nuclear power plant alerts
Next it is the council and commission statements on Japan's situation
I begin by conveying our  condolences to the people of Japan.
I also pay tribute to courage and fortitude of those tackling the aftermath of natural disasters and that of the nuclear incident
The EU stands alongside Japan at this difficult time.
Assistance has been provided materially to Japan
Assistance was mobilized on the very day of the earthquake.
Members States offered assistance which was coordinated by European Civil Protection Mechanism
In a short time, the European Union responded to assistance request from Japanese Government.
The EU stands ready to answer calls for humanitarian assistance or technical support that the Japanese authorities may consider appropriate.
I want to thank  Commissioner Georgieva and the High Representative for their quick response.
The EU civil protection in Japan has our support
Assistance has been offered by Individual Member States.
Importantly, the council will follow up the macroeconomic impact of this crisis
Minister already debated on the matter.
A main concern for all is the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
In addition, the Hungarian Presidency acted swiftly, taking into account the preponderance of the nuclear risk
The Working Party on Atomic Questions and an Extraordinary Energy Council promptly assessed the situations in Japan and any repercussions on the EU.
I would like to note the first message from the council was solidarity, compassion and readiness to provide humanitarian and technical assistance
I would like to have respect for those struggling with the fukushima issue
