The ELOs, the Europol officers, analysts, and other experts, provide an effective, fast and multilingual service 24 hours a day.
The Europol staff will keep increasing to 485 by 2004's end, including Elos and security personnel.
Management and control stop at borders and is active in establishing cooperation with accession States.
In addition, Europol has improved its international law-enforcement cooperation by negotiating bilateral operational or strategic agreements with other States and international organisations as follows — in alphabetical order: Colombia, Eurojust, European Central Bank, European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction, Iceland, Interpol, Norway, Romania, Russia, United States of America and World Customs Organisation.
Fact sheet on Europol
January 2004 - EN
Europol is accountable to Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs.
The Council is responsible for guidance and control of Europol.
It appoints the Director and Deputy Directors and approves the budget.
The Council of Ministers contains representatives from all Member States, and the uimous decisions ensure a democratic control of Europol.
The Europol Management Board comprises one representative from each Member State, and has the task of supervising the organisation.
Europol is the European Union law-enforcement organisation handling criminal intelligence.
It aims to improve effectiveness and cooperation between the competent authorities of Member States in preventing and combating serious international organised crime.
Europol's mission is to make significant contribution to the European Union's law-enforcement action against organised crime, with emphasis on targeting criminal organisations.
The Joint Supervisory Body, comprising two data protection experts from each Member State, monitors the content and use of all Europol personal data.
Raamweg, 47 The Hague The Netherlands
PO Box 90850 2509 LW The Hague The Netherlands
European Union enlargement and Intel. cooperation
Publications Office
The Maastricht Treaty on European Union of 7 February 1992 established Europol.
EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION MISSION, FACTS AND FIGURES
Our assignment
Services
Our focus
Our main asset is expertise in:
We assist partner countries in developing quality education and training systems and putting them into practice.
vocational education and training systems and policies in the EU, and transition countries
We work on behalf of the EU institutions, particularly the European Commission.
We currently operate in the candidate countries, South Eastern and Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Mediterranean region and implement the following activities:
Role:
the specific conditions and expectations of key players in the neighbour countries
Assess progress and priorities for reform in partner countries in vocational education and training
EU external relations programmes, structures and approaches.
and its links to socio-economic development design, develop, and monitor projects for the European Commission
build capacity so policy makers and practitioners in partner countries take full part
We share expertise and advise on policies in education and training across regions and cultures.
Working on behalf of the EU, we help our partner countries to develop human capacity, promote better living conditions, active citizenship and democratic societies that respect human rights and cultural diversity.
We support policy learning and implementation, to meet the specific needs and priorities of each partner country.
This approach ensures sustainable reform and full ownership in the partner country.
vocational education and training contribute actively to international debate on
The euro is an Europen Union
Parts to whole.
a single market
The aim of the European Union is sustainable economic and social progress.
Integration in policy is vital.
One market economy and the EMU, with an increased Europe is a step towards integration for benefits of society and the EU's strength and prosperity.
single currency
The introduction of the Euro was a milestone.
Euro is a tangible result of EMU
It builds on the success of the single market.
It opens aid for welfare and education and raises competition and innovation benefiting comsumers.
Strengthens Europe's political and economical
a closer Union
EMU is a work in progress.
New Members of the EMU commit to the integration and policies.
They need to align carefully.
Economic alignment is another step to closer EU integration
Bigger the EU, the better the benefits
The enlargement of the EU is beneficial.
One market is the main catalyst for realizing these benefits
The Schengen Information System
How to access, correct or delete?
What if my name is the same as the criminals?
You have the right to asfk for this in any Schengen country
To avoid your identity being mistaken for the subject of an alert, contact your national data protection authority or the competent authority which issued the alert in SIS II.
If you have no preference, you could do so by contacting the authorities in the country that may have put your personal details into SIS II.
You should also contact these authorities if you're living in the Schengen area.
In this case, for general information you may also contact the consulate of a Schengen in the country where you're living.
You can find details of who to contact in each Schengen country in the leaflet,
assist border guards, customs officers, protect the borders of Schengen, prevent and detect crimes and track missing persons
You'll be informed on the follow-up of your request for correction or deletion no later than three months.
What if the information in SIS II is incorrect?
Schengen contact information.
You have the right to go to court or the competent authority  if you need to correct, delete, or obtain information or claim compensation for an alert.
What is the Schengen Area?
Who has access to SIS II?
Where does the info. come from?
Officials in the Schengen countries exchange information to fight illegal migration and crime.
SIS II is accessed by border guards, officers, visa authorities and law-enforcement authorities.
They are limited to accessing only the specific  SIS II data they need.
A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society
President's presentation
The European Economic and Social Committee  is adopting a comprehensive and timely document of the ongoing political debate and the problems facing Europe for the first time - A programme for Europe : proposals of civil society.
This programme allows the Committee to take a position on two major issues: economic and social recovery, and the European elections.
Through this programme, the Committee call on European institutions, the Member states, political and social powers, and the citizens of the European Union to ensure that the elections are about European issues and not just matters of national interest.
This is especially important at this time, when all Europeans are engaged in the debate on economic recovery.
The debate requires responses and decisions.
Through A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society, the Committee presents a set of measures and actions that Europe must undertake to support progress-oriented and sustainable economic and social recovery.
The Committee supports European integration.
These needs include an understanding of what the European project means: a meaning that goes beyond markets and institutions, and encourages the development of our society.
Mario Sepi, President of the EESCBrussels
A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society has three fundamental objectives: prospective, political, and institutional.  The prospective objective reveals the Committee's soul in a global framework the reflects their consistency.
This programme permits the Committee's members to set out their views on the choices that Europe must make for a sustainable future in a world in crisis.  The committee's political objective is to present what might be termed a civil society manifesto to the other institutions, European Parliament, and the Commission and Counsel to support their actions.
Finally, the institutional objective to to place the ideas of the Committee at the heart of the debate on the challenges facing Europe in the coming years by proposing concrete measures.
These three objectives are interlinked by a central idea that conveys the essence of the Committee: developing an inclusive and symbiotic European model, leading to stronger coordination between economic and political rules based on cooperation and integration strategies.
The crisis, originating in the ficial system and spreading worldwide, has presented our societies with new questions and aggravated existing challenges, such as
poverty, social balances, business vitality and innovation, natural resources, energy sources, and migration.  Civil society and citizens expect concrete answers during this time of unprecedented change.
The EU aims to be a global pioneer.
The European Economic and Social Committee calls on the institutions to enable Europe to play this role.
As we approach the renewal of the European institutions responsible to taking the necessary actions, it is important for civil society to be heard.
