The ELOs, together, with the Europool offciers, analysts and other experts, provide and effective and quick service 24 hours a day
The Europol staff,  including the ELOs and security personnel, will reach 485 by the end of 2004.
Management and control stop at national borders and has been active in establishing cooperative networks
In addition, Europol improved its international law-enforcement cooperation by negotiating bilateral operational or strategic agreements with other States and international organisations: Colombia, Eurojust, European Central Bank, European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction, Iceland, Interpol, Norway, Romania, Russia, United States of America and World Customs Organisation.
Fact sheet on Europol
January 2004 — EN
Europol reports to the Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs.
The Council oversees the guidance and control of Europol.
JHA appoints the Director/Deputy Directors and approves the budget.
The Council of Ministers have representatives from Member States, requirements for uimous decisions helps ensure a democratic control of Europol.
The Europol Management Board has one representative from each Member State and supervises the activities of the organization.
Europol, the European Union law-enforcement organisation,  handles criminal intelligence.
Its aim is to improve the effectiveness and cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States in combating serious international organized crime.
Its mission includes significant contributions to the EU's law-enforcement action against organized crime, emphasizing criminal organizations.
Two data protection experts from each Member State comprise the Joint Supervisory Body which monitors the content/use of personal data in Europol.
Raamweg, 47 The Hague The Netherlands
PO Box 90850 2509 LW The Hague The Netherlands
European Union enlargement and international cooperation
Publications Office
The establishment of Europol was agreed in the Maastricht Treaty of 7 February 1992.
EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION MISSION, FACTS AND FIGURES
mission
our work
approach
Our main trick is our expertise in:
We support partner countries in developing quality education, training systems and practices.
vocational education, training systems and policies in EU, its states and transition countries
We work on favor of the EU institutions, particularly the EUC.
currently operate in candidate countries and carry out the following activities
our part
the specific conditions, needs and expectations of partner countries.
evaluate progress and priorities for reform in partner countries through vocational education and training
EU external relations programmes, structures and approaches.
its connected to socio-economic development design, monitor and assess projects as requested by European Commission
build capacity so policy makers and practitioners take full part in modernising their
we share expertise and we advise on policies in education and training across regions
Working on behalf of the EU, we help our partner countries to improve people's skills and knowledge to promote better living conditions and democratic societies that respect human rights.
We use our expertise for the needs of policy learning and implementation  for each partner country.
experience shows this ensures sustainable reform and ownership in the partner country
vocational education and training contribute to international debate
The euro is used by the EU.
fragmentation to integratin
one store
Treaty of Rome signed in 1957,  fundamental target of the European Union economic and social progress has been sustainable, to ensure health, wealth and a better future for Europeans.
Policy integration is key.
real social and economic benefits and strengthened the EU in the world were aided though  the single market, EMU, and enlargement to a Europe of 25
with a single coin:
The monetary changeover and development of the Union  was due to the introducing the Euro
The Euro is a tangible result.
Single market success  allows for the Euro to contribute to sustainability.
Social welfare, education and consumer benefits has increased competition and innovation.
The euro improves politics and economy.
a closer Union:
However, EMU is not a one-off-event- it's work in progress by the euro-area members.
The new Member States committed themselves to join the EMU.
They need to align their economics better with those of existing members
Economic convergence improves EU integration.
EU member growth is beneficial.
Through progressive enlargement the EU has gained the benefits of size
the largest benefit to the EU is the single market
The Schengen Information System (SIS II)
How to apply for access, correction, or deletion?
if my name is the same as an individual involved in a crime?
has the right to request this in any Schengen country.
contact any competent authority that issue the alert in SIS II to avoid mistaken identity with any other criminal
contact authorities in the SIS II to take action and avoid misidentification between you and another person who has been the subject of an alert.
contact these authorities if you are outside Schengen
for general information in this case contact the consulate of Schengen in your current country
the home page at the end of this leaflet provides details of the national authority to contact in Schengen country
helping border guards and police to protect external Schengen borders, prevent and detect crime and locate missing persons
correction or deletion of your request would be sent no later than three months of your request
what if SIS II details are wrong
further details in Schengen area
has the right to bring an action before the competent authority in order to access, correct, suppress and claim compensation in connection with an alert.
What is the Shengen area?
what bodies can access SIS II?
Where does the information in SIS II come from?
Schengen authorities regularly exchange information to help fight illegal migration and crime.
SIS is accessed by border authorities
authorities access SIS II data only if they need it for the specific performance of their tasks.
European proposals for civil society.
Presidential Presentation
The European Economic and Social Committee adopted a document on the proposals for a civil society.
This programme allows the Committee to take a position on two major issues: the need for economic and social recovery on the one hand, and the EU elections.
Through this programme, the Committee calls on European institutions, the Member States, and on the citizens of the EU, to ensure that the elections are about European issues and not only about matters of national interest.
This is especially important now, when all European countries are engaging in debate on economic and ficial recovery.
This debate requires EU responses and common decisions
Through A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society, the Committee presents the institutions with measures and actions which Europe must undertake in order to support a sustainable economic and social recovery.
The goal is to support the consolidation of integration.
These needs include and understanding of the meaning of the European project, which goes beyond the confines of the market and institutions, and encourages the qualitative development of our society.
Mario Sepi, President of the EESCBrussels, 24 March 2009
A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society has three objectives: prospective, political, and institutional. The prospective objective reveals the Committee's soul in a global framework that reflects on its consistency.
This programme permits the Committee's members, who represent EU civil society organizations, to give their views on the choices Europe must make for a sustainable future in a crisis world. The Committee's political objective is to present a civil society manifesto to the other institutions, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council in particular, in order to support their actions on achieving Europe's shared goals.
The European Economic and Social Committee proposes measures to deal with European challenges.
These three objectives are interlinked by an important central idea that constitutes the Committee's very essence: the development of an inclusive and mutually supportive EU model, which must lead to better coordination between economic and political rules.
The ficial crisis spread internationally has presented new challenges.
poverty; social balances, business innovations, natural resources, energy, and migration. In this context, civil society and citizens expect concrete answers from the European institutions, which are responsible for developing decisive policies for Europe's future.
The EU aims to become a global pioneer in developing a long-term model.
The European Economic and Social Committee calls on the institutions to provide responses enabling Europe to fully play this role.
It is important that society be heard.
