The ELOs, with the Europol officers, analysts and others, provide an effective, fast and multilingual service 24 hours a day.
the Europool staff'll continue to increase up to 485 by the end of 2004
Management and control stop at national borders and has been active in establishing cooperative networks with accession States.
in addition, Europool has improved its international law-enforcement cooperation by negotiating bilateral operational or strategic agreements with other States and international organisations as follows- in a alphabetical order: Colombia, Eurojust, EU Central Bank, EU Monitoring centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction, Iceland, Interpol, Norway, Romania, Russia, US
fact-sheet. on Europool
January 2004 — EN
Europool is accountable to the Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs
The council is responsible for the guidance of Europol
it appoints the director and the deputy directors and agree the budget
The JHA has representatives from all Member States whose required uimous decisions ensure democratic control of Europol.
The Europol magagement board comprises one representative from each member State, and has the overall of supervising the activities of the organisation.
The European Union law-enforcement organization Europol handles criminal intelligence.
its aim to get better effectiveness and cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States in preventing and combating serious international crime
the mission of Europol is to make an important contribution to the EU union's law-enforcement action against organised crime, with an emphasis on targeting criminal organisations
the Joint Supervisory Body, comprising two data protection experts from each Member State, monitors the content of all personal data.
Raawmeg, 47 the Netherlands
Postal address: PO Box 90850 2509 LW The Hague The Netherlands
European Union enlargement and international cooperation
Publications Office
the establishment of Europol was agreed in the Maastricht Treaty on European Union of 02/07/1992
facts and figures for europe training foundation
mission
services
near
we are experts in
we help partner countries develop quality education and training systems and practising with them
vocational education, training systems and policies in the EU Member States and transition countries
we work with European union institutions, even the European commission
our offices are in countries of South Eastern Europe, Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the Mediterranean region and carry out the following activities:
role
the specific needs and expectations of key partners
progress and priorities for reform in partner countries in vocational education and training
EU relations programs, structures and approaches
manage projects requested by the European Commission and it's links to socio-economic development
policy makers and practitioners in partner countries take complete part in modernizing
we share expertise, advise on policies in education and training for regions and cultures
for the EU, we help countries to develop people's skills to promote  better living conditions, active citizenship and democratic societies that respect human rights and cultural differences
together this expertise to support policy learning and implement the specific needs and priorities of each partner country
over time, this approach has brought sustainable reform and full ownership in the partner country.
vocational education training systems has been forefront in international debate
an enlarged European Union euro
from fragmentation to ensemble
single market
since the Treaty of Rome was signed in 1987, a fundamental aim of the EU ha been sustainable economic and social progress, so as the ensure health, wealth and a promising future.
closer assemble in many policy areas has been vital to achieve this aim
the single market, economic and monetary union, and enlargement to EU of 25 are major stepping stones in this process of integration, which has brought real social and economic benefits
with one currency
the introduction of the Euro is a milestone in the improvement of the biggest monetary changeover in history
The Euro is the result of EMU
it builds on the success of the single market and contributes greatly to the economic stability needed for more
it increases competition and innovation, benefits consumers and releases resources for the other areas such as social welfare
it also strengthens EU politically and economically
for a nearer Union:
The EMU continues to progress with members who utilize the Euro and policy consistency.
the new member states also committed themselves to joining EMI
To do so, they need to align their economies carefully with those members
this economical alignment, known as "convergence", is yet another step on the road to closer EU
the bigger the EU. the grater profit
the EU has grown due to progressive enlargement
the single marker is the main catalyst for realising these benefits
The Schengen Information System (SIS II)
request access, correction or deletion?
what if my name is similar to that of a criminal?
you can as for this in Schengen country
contact your national data protection authority in the SIS II so that you can take action and avoid misidentification between you and any other person who has been the subject of an alert.
if no other preference, contact authorities of the country that put your details in SIS II
you should contact the authorities if you live outside of Schengen.
for general information, contact the consulate of a Schengen country where you currently live.
the home page provides details on the national contact authority in each Schengen country
helping relevant authorities to protect external Schengen borders
you will be informed of your request for correction or deletion no later than three months from the date of the request.
what if the SIS II information is incorrect?
more information in the Schengen area
you are allowed to bring an action before the relevant bodies to check details or claim compensation
defines the Schengen area
who access SIS II?
origin of SIS II information?
relevant security agencies in Schengen regularly exchange information to combat illegal migration and crime
the judicial and police authorities have access to the SIS II.
these authorities may only access SIS II data that are relevant for their tasks
Proposals of a civil society.
Presidential presentation.
The European Economic and Social Committee will adopt a document on the problems facing Europe.
This programme will enable the Committee to take a position on both the need for economic and social recovery as well as the European elections.
Through this programme, the Committee calls on the EU institutions, the Member States, the political and social powers, and hence, on citizens of the EUU, to ensure that the European elections are about EU issues.
This is important when considering European economic recovery.
This debate requires European responses and common decisions.
Through this program, the Committee presents the institutions with a set of measures and actions which Europe must undertake in order to support progress-oriented and sustainable economic and social recovery.
The goal of the Committee is to support the consolidation of European integration, our democracies, and responses to public needs.
This includes the meaning of the European project beyond economic needs.
Mario Sepi, president of the EESCBrussels, 24/03/2009
The Programme for Europe reflects three fundamental objectives.
This programme permits the Committees's members, who represent civil society organisations in the EUU, to set out their views on the choices that EU must make for a sustainable future in a world in crisis. The Committee's political objective is to present what might be termed as a civil society manifesto to the other institutions, the EU parliament, in order to support their actions with a view of achieving EU's shared goals
The objective is to propose concrete measures to the challenges facing Europe.
These three objectives are interlinked by the central idea that constitutes the Committee's essence: the development of an inclusive and mutually supportive European model, which must lead to a stronger coordination between economic and political rules based on cooperation and integration strategies.
the crisis , which originated in the ficial system and has spread to the international economic system, has presented our societies with new questions and, at the same time, aggravated existing challenges.
poverty; social balances, the vitality and innovations of our businesses, natural resources, energy sources, and migration. In this context of unprecedented change, civil society and citizens expect concrete answers from EU institutions.
The EU has a long-term development model.
The European Economic and Social Committee calls on the institutions to provide strong responses that will enable Europe to play this roll in full.
it is important for civil society, which is made up of the driving forces that are in direct contact with our societies’ social and economic realities, to be heard by these European institutions.
