The ELOs, Europol officers, analysts, and other experts, provide fast, effective, multilingual  service 24 hours a day.
Europol will increase its staff to 485 by the end of 2004.
Management and control stop at borders  and are actively establishing cooperative networks with accession states.
Europol has improved its international law-enforcement cooperation by negotiating bilateral operational, strategic agreements with other States and international organisations as follows : Colombia, Eurojust, European Central Bank, European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction, Iceland, Interpol, Norway, Romania, Russia, United States of America and World Customs Organisation.
Fact sheet on Europol
Jan. "04"-EN
Europol answers to the Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs.
JHA's responsibilities include guidance and control of Europol.
It appoints the Director and Deputy Directors and approves the budget.
The Council of Ministers contains representatives from all Member States, and requires uimous decisions to help ensure democratic control of Europol.
The Europol Management Board comprises one representative from each Member State, and has the task of supervising organisation activities.
Europol is the EU Union law-enforcement organisation that handles criminal intelligence.
Europol seeks to improve relations between the competent authorities of the Member States to prevent/combat international organized crime.
Europol's mission is to make a significant contribution to the European Union's law-enforcement action against organized crime, in particular criminal organizations.
The Joint Supervisory Body, comprising two data protection experts from each Member State, monitors personal data held by Europol.
Raamweg, 47 The Hague The Netherlands
Address: PO Box 90850 2509 LW The Hague The Netherlands
EU enlargement/international cooperation
Publications Office
The Europol establishment accepted the Maastricht Treaty on European Union of 7 February 1992.
EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION MISSION, FACTS AND FIGURES
Mission
Services
Approach
Our expertise is our main asset
We assist partner countries in developing quality education and training and implementing these.
Vocational education and training systems and polices in the EU, its member States
We work for the European Union institutions, particularly the European Commission.
We currently operate in the candidate countries, SEEU, EEU, and Central Asia, and the Mediterranean region and carry out the following activities:
Our role:
special needs and expectations of main players in the partner countries
Assess progess and future priorities for improvement in partner countries in vocational training
EU external relations programmes, structures and approaches.
and its links to socio-economic development design, develop and vet projects at the request of the European Commission
build capacity and guide decisions of policy makers and practitioners in partner countries at modernising
We share expertise and advise on education and training policies across regions and cultures.
Working for the EU, we help partner countries to develop people’s skills and knowledge to promote better living conditions, active citizenship and democratic societies that respect human rights and cultural diversity.
We combine this expertise to support policy learning and implementation, which fits the specific need and priorities
Our expertise shows that this approach ensures sustainable reform and full ownership in the partner country
vocation education and training systems contribute actively to international debate.
The euro in an enlarged EU
From fragmentation to integration
Solo.
The aim of the EU since the Treaty of Rome is sustainable economic, social progress, ensuring the health, wealth and  future for Europeans.
Integration in policy is important to achieve this goal
Economic and monetary union and growing to a Europe of 25 are important stepping stones in integration process, which brought social and economic benefits and strengthened the EU
One currency.
The Euro is a milestone in the development of the Union and the biggest change over in history
EMU results in the tangible Euro
It builds on the single market and contributes to economic stability
Increases innovation, benefits and releases resources for other areas like social welfare and education
Politics and economy in Europe are stronger
One Union.
EMU is a constant process by the euro-area members
New Member States committed themselves to joining EMU and the Euro in their accession treaties
Economies must be aligned with those of existing members.
Convergence is needed for closer EU integration.
A large EU has greater benefits
The EU's growth has found great benefits.
One market has brought the benefits to reality.
Schengen Information System
Apply for access, corrections or deletions?
What if my name is the same as someone involved in a crime?
You can request in all Schengen countries
Contact your national data protection authority or the competent authority which issued the alert in SIS II so that it can take measures to avoid mistaken identity, between you and any other person
If you have no preference, contact the authorities in the country you think put your information in SIS II.
If you are outside Schengen contact these authorities.
For general information you can contact your local Schengen consulate.
The home page mentioned in this leaflet gives details of who to contact in each Shengen country.
Helping border guards, police and customs officers protects Shengen borders, prevents crime and locates missing persons.
Within three months you will receive a response to your correction or deletion request.
What if the SIS II information is wrong?
Further information and contact points in the Schengen area
You have the right to bring an action before the court or competent authority, in order to access, correct or delete information, or claim compensation as regards an alert
What is the Schengen Area?
Which authorities can access?
SIS II details are from where?
Border guards, customs authorities, police forces and visa authorities in the Schengen countries share information related to crime and illegal migration.
SIS II is accessed by border guards, customs officers, visa authorities and judicial and law-enforcement authorities.
These authorities may only access the SIS II data that they need for the specific performance.
A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society
Presented by the President
For the first time in its history, the EU Economic and Social Committee is to adopt a comprehensive, detailed and timely document on the ongoing political debate and the urgent and concrete problems facing Europe- A programme for EU: proposals of civil society
The programme enables the Committee to focus on economic and social recovery and the European elections.
The programme calls on the Committee. to ensure that the European elections are about European issues to ensure that the European elections are about European issues.
This is especially important at this time, when all EU countries are engaged in the debate on economic and ficial recover
The debate requires European responses and common decisions.
Through A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society, measures for economic recovery are presented.
The Committee has set itself the goal of supporting the consolidation of EU integration, our democracies as well as our responses to public needs.
These needs include an understanding of the very meaning of the EU project: a meaning that goes beyond the confines of the market and the institutions and encourages the qualitative development of society.
Mario Sepi, President of EESC Brussels, 24 March 2009
A Programme for Europe has a prospective objective, a political objective and an institutional objective.
This European programme creates a sustainable future and attempts to achieve Europe's shared goals.
Finally, the institutional objective is to place the ideas of the European Economic and Social Committee at the center of debate on European challenges in the near future by proposing concrete measures.
The three objectives are interlinked to support the European model and integration strategies.
The crisis started in the ficial system, has spread to the international economic system , and has presented us with new questions while aggravating existing challenges, namely :
Poverty; social balances, the vitality and innovation of our businesses, natural resources, energy sources, and migration require solutions from European institutions.
The EU aims to be a global pioneer in its defence of a long-term development model.
The EU Economic and Social Committee calls on the institutions to give strong responses that'll enable EU to play this role
As we approach the renewal of the European institutions responsible for taking the necessary actions, it is important for civil society, made up of driving forces in direct contact with our social and economic realities, to be heard.
