Ozone Mafia.
Now that the Kyoto Protocol has been ratified with Russia signing on, a threat is emerging against a landmark in international environmental protection the Vienna Convention the Montreal Protocol for defending the ozone layer.
The threat comes from organized crime
The reason is simple.
To protect ozone layer international agreements have been reached to ban the use and trade of the ozone-destroying chemicals called CFCs.
This would entail replacing freezers, cooler units and other equipment which presently use CFCs with new ones.
I use the old equipment refill them with CFC's when needed
A market was thus created with it a business opportunity for well organized and environmentally reckless criminals.
Organized crime is always looking such opportunities.
CFC or freon smuggling has developed without attention risks jeopardizing the Vienna Convention the Montreal Protocol.
These agreements are hailed as great successes; annual reports show that the use of CFC continues to decrease.
The content of chlorine in the stratosphere has levelled off two years ago the one goal over the Antarctic was the smallest in decades broken up into two.
New reports show a thinning of the ozone layer over the Arctic last year Antarctic ozone hole was as large as ever.
There is no way of telling whether these represent fluctuations in a recovery process a break in the positive trend.
The amount of illegal CFC trading is now crucial.
As with illicit drugs it is difficult to estimate smuggling operations number.
A number of catches have been made by customs agencies the largest in Japan in recent years.
Generally, banned CFCs labelled as permitted HFCs (hydrogenfluorocarbons) have been discovered.
Ships airplanes have been used for transport in this trade.
Shipments caught by customs authorities mostly come from free industrial zones in China, Vietnam, Thailand, and Egypt.
Wall-to-Wall Wal-Mart
Which video clip will scare the daylights out of world policy-makers
In a scenario like the spread of a global pandemic, the economist, Thomas Holmes, has prepared a dynamic map simulation showing the spread of Wal-Mart stores around the U.S.
Starting at the center in Bentonville Arkansas where Sam Walton opened his first store in 1962, Wal-Mart stores have multiplied to where the average American lives less than seven kilometres from an outlet.
The video shows how stores spread like flower petals.
80% of Americans live within 80 kilometres of the pacific or Atlantic walmarts, which are ever expanding
Even though each new stores takes away business from Wal-Mart stores established nearby ever-improving supply efficiencies help maintain the overall growth.
Love or hate them Wal-Mart is clearly the best example of the costs and benefits of globalization.
Consumers pay less than at tradition outlets
Economists estimate that the food section of Wal-Mart charges 25% less than a traditional large supermarket chain.
The differences in price for other goods is larger.
Consider this together with other big box stores Target Best Buy Home Depot Wal-Mart accounts for 50% of America's productivity growth over Europe in the last decade.
50%
Advances in wholesaling supply chains account for 25%
The idea that America has improved at everything while other rich countries have stood still is false.
The US productivity miracle the Wal-Mart-style retailing are synonymous.
I don't dislike big stores.
They are a great help to poor consumers offsetting slow wage growth many have had in the last 2 decades.
I disagree with my friends who look down at Wal-Mart claiming to have never been.
As a consumer I think they're great.
Great Man Syndrome.
In our age, vast impersonal forces are supposed to determine events.
Globalized markets trade militant Islam China's awakening these are are the things historians usually portray as the key forces shaping destiny.
Most disagree.
Instead most people still look at great men as the agents of history the men who seem to forge events through their vision personal charisma the force of their moral claims.
By sheer force of conviction personality such figures many of us believe can carry the day bringing hope to an otherwise detached universe.
This desire for such men or women in this time comes from 3 factors.
First is the complexity and vulnerability of the world.
The second reflects a growth of cynicism about politics/politicians.
The third comes from a cultural need to put a face to events.
Met with the issue of making a positive change at home and abroad defying normal leader's powers, new Alexanders must untie the Gordian knot and lessen complexity by sheer force of will dynamism.
For example basic reforms in Europe are thought impossible without a new Margaret Thatcher.
In the Near East, all wait for a new Anwar Sadat to appear.
Disillusion with politics is a key factor in wanting providential leaders.
E.G In France, overly flattering commemoration of President François Mitterrand's death ten years ago reflects widespread disillusion with successor Jacques Chirac.
Current criticism is often a key factor in idealized views of the past.
Lower political expectations requires a new hero.
The world's global stage lets the media fuel the appetite for providential leaders.
People demand fast answers to hard problems of unsolved risk, endangering the planet.
They need figures they can identify with, recognize and most of all, trust.
Reason Pain Hurts
Pain is a common experience for everyone, its nature remains in a enigma for sufferers
Why do patients that go through surgical process experience varying post-operative pain
Reason why people with less explanation for continuous pain become partly disabled by it even with treatment
Many doctors believe pain indicates disease or injury.
Pain isn't explainable by simple sensation as music isn't by Simple tones
A non medical writer described pain as the ability to annihilate complex thoughts and the ability to destroy a strong resistance to objectification
She reminds physicians that powerful negative emotions dominates awareness, for a person in intense pain
Mostly, pain occurs when nerve endings discover tissue defect and send signal to the brain through the spinal cord
For many years scientists thought that these signals travelled along routes to reach a relay station in the thalamus
Scientist believed signals are turned to conscious experience by part of the brain's cortex
Sadly the neural roadmap for sensory messages of tissue injury explains less of the pain we experience
How pain effects emotion and cognition can't be explained
Psychologists point out that human experience strong emotion cognition
Pain begins with a neural message of tissue defects and it ends with complex events in the brain
Pain involves emotion, cognition, and sensation.
Pain  experienced in some part of the body sometimes have particular meaning
New evidence points to more complex mechanism that involves the brain's higher levels
Injury messages seems to travel to many brain structures
Injury signals also produce emotional responses to process the immediate situation.
Water for All
This month water takes center stage at the 4th World Water Forum
It's a key moment while the world's attention has been on energy and security the developing world continues to see fresh water supply as the key issue
The World Bank surveys from the affected countries show that good health is the most important concern of the people
a key element of good health is access to clean water
Countless people worldwide today do not
Consequently they are more vulnerable to bad health
The World Bank estimates by 2035 up to three billion people in mostly developing countries could live under conditions of severe water stress especially if they happen to live in Africa the Middle East South Asia
This will cause hardship and stunting of economic growth needed to escape poverty
15%, or 76 million people in Latin America do not have access to safe water and 116 million to sanitation.
It is worse in Africa and parts of Asia
Few people in rich countries will face this
Generally these citizens enjoy services that provide drinking, irrigation, and sanitation needs
Also other water issues such as flooding are managed well
Rich industrial countries have invested early and heavily in water infrastructure
Beyond the health benefits for all has been a record of economic growth, investment in hydro-power. is an example of the benefits of water management projects
Granted, rich lands have an advantage: they benefit from moderate climates with regular rainfall and relatively low risk of droughts and floods
Even so they're immune to water disasters as Hurricane Katrina's destruction of New Orleans
The result of such events on poor nations is greater
Extreme rainfall variations, floods, and droughts have huge socio-economic effects and result in the large-scale deaths
