The mafia
the Kyoto Protocol has been ratified with even Russia belatedly signing on
from organized crime.
is simple
he stratospheric ozone layer international
replace these chemicals with others  plastic production must be substituted for new ones
Its cheaper to use the old equipment and refill them with CFC's than buy new machines that use the more environmentally friendly substitute .
any ban a market was thus created with it a business opportunity
Such criminals are continually looking for such opportunities.
it is no surprise that CFC or freon smuggling has developed without much attention
as great successes annual reports summarizing official statistics are published
from decay of CFC's in the stratosphere has levelled
the ozone layer over the Arctic last year Antarctic ozone hole
these represent mere fluctuations in a slow recovery process a break in the positive trend.
the volume of illicit CFC trading is now a factor of real importance.
It is hard to estimate the extent of smuggling operations.
national customs agencies the largest in Japan in recent years
Usually, the banned CFC's have been labelled as permitted HFC's labels.
used for transport in this black-market trade.
mostly originate from free industrial zones also called export-processing zones
Wall-toWall Wal-Mart
you want to know which video will soon scare the life out of policy-makers the world over.
like a global pandemic scene, the dynamic map, prepared by Thomas Holmes, shows the spread of Wal-Mart stores in the US
Starting in Bentonville Arkansas where the first store opened in 1962, giant boxy Wal-Mart stores have multiplied so that average Americans live less than several kilometres from an outlet.
The video shows how the stores spread out like petals of a flower.
Wal-Marts have spread naturally through an always-growing supply chain.
While each new store detracts business from Wal-Mart stores made nearby, improving supply efficiencies help maintain the chain overall growth.
Wal-Mart is the ultimate example of the costs and benefits of modern globalization.
consumers pay significantly less
For example economists estimate that the food section of Wal-Mart charges 25% less than a typical supermarket.
The price difference is larger for many consumer goods
Wal-Mart accounts for about half of America's productivity growth edge over Europe during the last decade.
Fifty percent.
Similar growth in wholesaling supply chains provide another 25%.
The notion that Americans have improved while other rick countries have not is misleading.
Us productivity and the emergence of walmart style stores are synonymous
I have nothing against walmart
Thy are a boon to low-income consumers, compensating for the slow wage growth that they have suffered for 2 years
I don't agree with people who turn their noses down at Wal-Mart stores claim never to have visited one.
I think big-box stores are great.
The Great Man Syndrome.
In our worldly age, outside forces seem to decide events.
World markets, free trade, militant Islam, China's awakening, these are what historian strategists show as the key factors of our destiny.
most people don't see it this way.
Men and women who forge events through their political vision, personal charisma and moral claims are still seen as the greats by many.
Their conviction and personality bring hope to a detached and impersonal universe.
Three factors result in a yearning for providential men/women in our global age.
The main concerns: complexity and vulnerability of our world.
The seconds reflects cynicism towards politics.
the third is the result of our culture obsessed as it is with putting a face to events.
With the issue of bringing about positive changes in a domestic or international atmosphere that defies the power of normal leaders, we need new Alexanders to undo the Gordian knot and transcend complexity by force of will dynamism.
Such as structural changes in Europe, thought impossible to enact unless ordered by a reincarnated Margaret Thatcher.
The Middle East waits for a new Anwar Sadat.
Political disillusion leads to a need for providential leaders.
In France, the commemoration of President François Mitterrand's death reflects widespread disillusion with Jacques Chirac.
Present criticism results in past idealism.
The less we expect of a politician the more we want a hero.
With the world becoming a global stage the media's role is essential to find a leader.
The public demands quick fixes to hard problems that might damage the planet.
They need people they can identify, recognize and above all trust.
it hurt?
Pain is an experience that remains an enigma for sufferers and scientists
different patients who undergo the same procedure experience
how is that people with no medical explanation for a persistent pain become partially or disabled by it even with treatment
many doctors would like to think of pain as a sensation that usefully calls disease
pain resists explanation as a sensation just as music resists explanation as tones
The quality of pain is the ability to annihilate complex thoughts and ability to destroy resistance to objectification, a description by a non medical  writer
She reminds physicians that, for the person suffering pain what dominates awareness above all else is a powerful negative emotion
The pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue damage in several ways generate signals that travel to the spinal cord and thence to the brain
Scientists have thought these signals travelled along a few developed routed to reach the thalamus
Scientists thought signals went to the cortex to be turned into physical pain.
unfortunately the neural roadmap for sensory messages explains only a part of how we experience pain
It does not explain emotions and cognition.
Psychologists state that strong emotions form experiences.
There are complex events that lead to experienced pain.
the conscious experience of pain involves emotion and cognition as well
we always experience pain as a distressing thing happening in some part of the body in some circumstance
new evidence points to more compelling mechanism for pain
injury messages it seems, travel to many brain structures not just sensation-generating areas
Some injury messages directly excite brain structures that produce emotion, these in turn stimulate areas of the brain that create the meaning of immediate situation
Water for all
water again is central at the fourth world water forum in Mexico city
it is an opportune moment while much of the worlds attention has been fixed on issues of energy apply and security of hundreds of millions of people in the developing world continue to see the supply of fresh water is more important
surveys undertaken by the world bank is developing countries show that when poor people are asked to name the most important things, health is always first
and mainly determined by their access to clean water.
which over a billion people do not have and
therefore become vulnerable to illness.
The Worlds Bank estimates that by 2035 as many as three billion people almost all of them in developing countries could live under conditions of sever water stress, especially if the live in Africa
This'll cause obvious hardship it will also hold back the economic growth needed for millions of people
In Latin America about 15% of the population roughly 76 million people don't have access to safe water 116 million people don't have access to sanitation
The numbers are worse in Africa and Asia
This is a situation that few people faces
generally these countries citizens enjoy services that provides for all water needs from drinking to irrigation
Other risks, like flooding, have been reduced to manageable levels.
These rich countries have made investments in the necessary infrastructure for water .
the result beyond the health benefits for all has been a proven record of economic growth one only has to look at investment in hydro-power. to see the positive impact of water management projects
granted rich countries have a certain advantage they benefit from generally moderate climates with regular rainfall and relatively low risk of drought
but  are still at risk of disasters such as Hurricane Katrina's destruction in New Orleans.
the impact on poor lands is much  greater
extrema rainfall variations floods can have huge social and economic effects and result in the large-scale loss of life
