The Ozone Mafia
Since the Kyoto Protocol has been ratified with even Russia signing on, a threat is emerging against the Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol for defending the stratospheric ozone layer.
The threat comes from organized crime.
The reason?
To protect the agreements that have been reached to ban CFC s.
To replace these chemicals with others more innocent. The equipment must be replaced too.
It's much cheaper although forbidden, to use the old equipment refill them with CFC's when needed than to buy new machines use the more benign more costly alternatives.
The ban caused a market to open up and an opportunity for criminals.
Organized crime is always on the lookout for such opportunities.
CFC or freon smuggling has started jeopardizing the Vienna Convention.
These agreements are hailed as successes annual reports summarizing official statistic are published showing the use of CFC decreases.
The ozone hole over the Antarctic is now the smallest for decades
New reports show a thinning ozone layer over the Arctic; last year Antarctic ozone hole was as large and deep as ever.
There is no way to tell what this means.
The volume of CFC trading is so large that it is now a really important factor.
Estimating the smuggling, as with drugs, is very difficult
Some number of catches have been made by customs in Japan in recent years.
In most case the CFCs are labelled as legal HFCs.
Ships and planes have been used in the blackmarket trafficking.
Shipments mainly originate from free industrial, export-processing zones such as China, Vietnam, Thailand and Egypt.
Wall-to-Wall Wal-Mart.
you want to know the video clip that will scare policy-makers worldwide.
In a scenario that looks like the spread of a global pandemic, Thomas Holmes has prepared a dynamic map simulation showing the spread of Wal-Mart stores throughout the United States
Starting at the epicentre in Bentonville Arkansas where Walton opened his first store in 1962, Wal-Mart stores have now multiplied to the point where the average American lives less than seven kilometres from one.
The video shows how the stores spread like the petals of a flower.
Rather than a jumping out to the coasts 80% of Americans live within 80 kilometres of the Pacific or Atlantic oceans, Wal-Marts have spread through and ever-expanding supply chain.
Even though new stores take business from established Wal-Mart stores supply efficiency maintains overall growth
Love them hate them what is undeniable is Wal-Mart is the quintessential example of the balance of modern globalization.
Consumers pay less than at traditional outlets.
Economists estimate that the food section of Wal-Mart charges 25% less than the average supermarket.
The gap in price for many other goods is even greater.
Considering the fact that a few sister stores like target, best buy, etc, together accounts for almost 50% of Americas productivity growth over Europe during the last decade
50%.
Other advances in wholesale supply chains account for another 25%.
The idea that Americans have improved at everything while other rich countries have stagnated is wildly misleading.
The US productivity miracle the emergence of Wal-Mart-style retailing are synonymous.
I have nothing against big box stores.
They are an enormous boon to low-income consumers partly compensating for the growth that many of them have suffered during last 20 years.
I don't agree with friends who look down at Wal-Mart stores claim never to have visited.
Big-box stores are great
The Great Man Syndrome.
In our global time, vast remote forces supposedly determine events.
Globalized markets, militant Islam and China are shaping our destiny.
Most people see things differently
Instead most still look at great men as the agents of history the people who forge events through their own vision charisma the force of their moral views.
Figures with sheer force and conviction of personality can bring a glimmer of hope to a detached and impersonal universe.
This want of providential people in our global age results from at least three factors.
The first concerns the complexity of our world.
The second reflects our growing cynicism towards politics.
Third is because of our media culture putting a face to events.
New Alexanders dynamism can bring about positive change.
For example reforms in Europe are thought impossible to enact unless imposed by reincarnation of Margaret Thatcher.
Many await a new Anwar Sadat to arise in the Middle East.
Disillusion with politics is also key for our desire for great leaders.
In France the overly flattering commemoration of Mitterrand's death ten years ago primarily reflects widespread disillusion with his successor Chirac.
Indirect criticism of the present is a key element in idealized views of the past.
The less we expect from a politician the more we look for a hero.
While the world becomes a global stage, the media fuelling the want for providential leaders is crucial.
The public demands answers to complex problems that unsolved risk ruining the planet.
They need figures with whom they can identify recognize and trust.
Why pain hurt
Pain is a family experience, its nature remains a worrying enigma, for the sick and for scientists
Why surgically operated patients experience distinguishing post operation pain
Why do some people suffer intense pain with no real reason?
Many doctors think of pain as a sensation that calls to attention disease and injury
Pain resists explanation as a simple sensation, so music resists the same explanation
A recent writer described in great detail the qualities of extreme pain.
She reminds physicians that strong negative emotions overwhelms awareness for a person in pain
Nerves in injured areas send signals through the spinal cord to the brain, causing pain.
For many years scientists thought that these signals travelled along some well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brain called the thalamus
Scientists believed signals travelled to part of the brain's cortex and somehow it was turned into conscious experience
This neural roadmap is only a partial explanation for feeling pain.
It cannot explain pain involvement with emotion and cognition
Psychologists point out that when humans experience strong emotion cognition, rudiments of the situation help for the experience
Pain may begin with neural message of  damaged tissue and end with complex events in the brain
The conscious experience of pain involves emotion, cognition and sensation
We always experience pain as a distress in the body  but mostly it has a particular meaning
New evidence shows pain to be complex.
Injury messages travel to many brain structures
Some injury message directly excite brain structure to produce emotion which in turn simulate the brain to create situation meanings.
Water for All
Water is again center stage at the Fourth World Water Forum in Mexico City.
Now is the time as much of the world's attention is focused on issues of energy supply and security, millions of people in the developing world continue to see fresh water supply and security as more important
World Bank surveys in developing countries show poor people always name good health as an important concern,
a key factor in the presence or not of good health is access to clean water
More than a billion people today do not
Thus they are increasingly vulnerable to bad health
The World Bank estimates that by 2035 as many as 3 billion people in developing countries might live in conditions of severe water stress
This will create hardship and hold back the economic growth needed for millions to escape poverty
In Latin America 15 % of the population (76 million) have no access to safe water while 116 million have no access to sanitation services
The figures are worse in Africa and Asia
Rich countries do not face this problem
These countries citizens have water services that provide for drinking, irrigation and sanitation
Also other water-related issues such as flooding risks have been reduced to manageable levels
Rich industrial lands have invested much early on in water infrastructure management
The result besides health benefits for all has been a proven record of economic growth one only has to look at investment in hydro-power. to see the good impact of water management projects on many economies
Rich countries do have advantages such as moderate climates with regular rainfall and low risks of drought and flooding
Even so, they are immune to water-related disasters as Hurricane Katrina taught us in New Orleans
but the impact of events on poor countries is greater
Extreme rainfall, floods, and droughts can have huge social and economic impact and result in many deaths
