The Ozone Mafia.
The Kyoto Protocol has been ratified. A threat is emerging.
from an unlikely source organized crime
Why, is simple.
To protect the stratospheric ozone layer, bans on the use and trade of chlorofluorocarbons (CFC's) have been made.
To replace these chemicals with others that are more benign, the equipment in which they are used must be replaced.
It's much cheaper, although forbidden, to use the old equipment than to buy new machines and use the more environmentally benign, pricey alternatives.
The ban created a business opportunity for organized and environmentally reckless criminals.
Organized crime is on the lookout for such opportunities it continues to find them.
Its unsurprising that CFC or freon smuggling now risks the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol.
These agreements are known as great successes. CFC use is continuing to decrease.
The ozone hole over the Antarctic is the smallest it has been in decades.
but new reports show a thinning of the Arctic ozone layer and the Antarctic ozone hole as large as ever.
We can't know if these represent fluctuations in a slow recovery process or a break in the positive trend.
of illicit CFC trading so large that it is now
I estimate the extent of smuggling operations
but a number of significant seizures have recently been made by customs agencies.
The forbidden CFC's have been labelled as permitted HFC's labels like spray paint also have been used.
This black market trade used ships and planes.
The shipments caught by customs authorities mostly originate from free industrial zones also called export-processing zones in China, Vietnam, Thailand and Egypt.
Wall-to-Wall Wal-Mart.
you want to know what video clip will be scaring the daylights out of policy-makers throughout the world.
In a scene that looks like a contagion the economist Thomas Holmes has made a map simulation showing the spread of Wal-Marts throughout the USA.
Starting in Bentonville Arkansas where Sam Walton opened the first store, Wal-mart stores have multiplied to the point where the average American lives less than 7 kilometres from one.
The video shows how the stores spread out ever thickening expanding.
Rather than going to the coasts 80% of Americans live within 80km of the coasts Wal-Marts have spread alongside their supply chain.
New stores take away walmart business, but the chain continues to grow
Wal-Mart is the example of costs and benefits of globalization
Consumers pay way less than at normal outlets.
Economists estimate the food section of walmart charges 25% less than typical supermarket chain
The price difference for other goods is even larger.
Together with Target Best Buy Home Depot Wal-Mart accounts for roughly 50% of America's productivity growth over Europe during the last decade.
50%.
Similar advances in wholesaling supply chains account for 25%
The notion that Americans have gotten better at everything while rich countries have stood still is misleading.
US productivity miracle the appearance of Wal-Mart retailing are virtually identical.
I have nothing against big box stores.
They help low-income consumers partly compensating for the tepid wage growth during the past 20 years.
I don't agree with my friends who condemn Wal-Marts without visiting one.
I think big box stores are great.
The Great Man Syndrome.
In our globalized age, vast impersonal forces supposedly determine events.
Strategist historians portray globalized markets, unfettered trade, militant Islam and China's awakening as the destiny shaping forces.
most people don't agree on this.
Instead the majority still see great men as the agents of history, people who forge events with their political views, charisma, and their moral claims.
Many believe that the sheer force of conviction of such figures can bring hope to a usually detached and impersonal universe.
This yearning for providential people in our age results from three factors.
The first concerns worldwide complexity and vulnerability.
The second reflects our growing distrust for politics
the third is media culture and the desire to put a face to events.
Seeing the problem of bringing positive change in a global environment that defies the power of leaders one looks for new Alexanders to break the Gordian knot and rise above issues by sheer force of will.
Margaret Thatcher-like reforms in Europe are impossible to enact.
Middle Easterns  await a new Anwar Sadal to arise among Arabs.
Political disillusion is key to our yearning for providential leaders.
In France the overly flattering eulogy given to François Mitterrand 10 years ago mainly reflects disillusion with his successor.
Indirect criticism of the present is often key in idealized views of the past.
The less we expect from politics, the more we look for a hero.
With a globalized world the media's role in creating a desire for great leaders is essential.
The public demands quick answers to problems that unsolved risk endangering the planet.
They need identifiable and trustworthy figures.
Why pain hurts
Pain is an experience for everyone and it remains an enigma for sufferers and scientists
Why there are differences in pain levels between patients of the same surgery?
Why people with little or no medical explanation for persistent pain become partially totally disabled by it, even with extensive treatment and resources
Many doctors think of pain as a simple sensation that calls disease and injury to our attention
Simple sensation doesn't explain pain as simple tones doesn't explain music
One writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme dislike an ability to annihilate complex thoughts other feelings a capacity to destroy language a strong resistance to objectification
She reminds physicians that, for the person suffering intense pain what dominates awareness above all else is a powerful negative emotion
Pain mostly occurs when nerve ending detect tissue injury and send the signal to the spinal cord, the  to the brain
Previously, scientists believed there were only a few routes for pain signals to reach the thalamus.
Scientists believed that the signals went to the part of the cortex of the brain that controlled the body consciousness somehow the cortex turned them into a conscious experience
Unfortunately, the neural map of the sensory messages of tissue injury explains only a part of how we experience pain
It cannot explain why pain involves emotion
Psychologists point out that whenever humans experience strong emotions cognitions - thoughts, memories expectations beliefs interpretation of the situation - helps to form the experience
The pain may begin with a neural message of injury or tissue disease, it is the end product of complex events within the brain
The conscious experience of pain is emotion and cognition as well as sensation
We experience pain as an anguishing thing that happens somewhere in the body in some particular circumstance usually has a particular meaning
New tests are more complex mechanisms for pain involving higher levels of the brain
Injury signals travel to areas other than sensation-generation.
Some injury message excite the brain structures and the stimulated areas create the meaning of the situation
Water for all
this month water once again takes center stage at the fourth world water forum in Mexico
The time is ripe as the world focuses on issues of energy supply and security millions of people in the developing world continue to see the supply and security of fresh water as equally if more important
World Bank surveys in developing countries show that when poor people are asked to name the three most important concerns they face good health is always mentioned
access to clean water is an important factor to good health
More than a billion worldwide do not have it
as a result they're increasingly vulnerable to poor health
The World Bank estimates that by 2035 up to three billion people in developing countries could live with severe water stress, especially if they live in Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia
This will stunt economic growth and cause hardship for those trying to escape poverty.
In Latin America about 15 % of the nearly 76 million people have no access to safe water and 116 million people have no access to sanitation services
The figures are worse in Africa and parts of Asia
This is a situation few face in rich countries
as they provide their citizens with services including water for drinking, irrigation and sanitation.
In addition other water-related issues have been reduced to manageable levels
Rich industrial nations have invested early and heavily in water infrastructure institutions management capacities
The result beyond health benefits has been a solid record of economic growth; one only has to look at investment in hydro-power. to see the good impact of water management projects on economies
Such countries may also benefit from moderate climates ensuring more stable rainfall
They are still open though to water disasters such as Hurricane Katrina's destruction of New Orleans
the impact of this events in poor countries is greater
and extreme variations result in floods or droughts enhancing  social and economic effects along with loss of life.
